__NOTOC__
==Description==
Streams ''The Engine's of Our Ingenuity'' episodes from the official site.

[http://geekwagon.net/projects/eistreamer Live Demo]


==Support==
Tested to work in Internet Explorer 10 and Chrome. Does work with Internet Explorer 8, 9, and FireFox with Adobe Flash although play back may take a little longer to load.

===Use===
The Engine's of Our Ingenuity is used on this project with permission from KUHF, the University of Houston, and Dr. John Lienhard.

Permission was given with the explicit direction this project can only pull from and parse the original website. All localization options have been removed. This code has been used for educational purposes, and can be reproduced in any form without permission from the author (although it's always a nice thing to do); however, if it is going to be used in conjunction with The Engine's of Out Ingenuity, permission should be obtained from KUHF, the University of Houston, and Dr. John Lienhard.


==Loose Time Table==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| February || Basic website that can play episodes with cross browser support.
|-
| March || Advanced interface features; cookies and help section.
|-
|| April || Advanced back end features; get episode title, keyword support, direct link to episode.
|-
| mid-May || Data validation, bug checking and mobile support.
|}


==Known bugs to work out==
* Some characters display with ?'s.
* Some episodes have a period after the by line.
* Some of the pictures don't work (so far only discovered on episode 1889).
* On occasion the main engine's page is updated and the latest episode has an audio file, but the transcript isn't available yet.
* Cookie size limit is reached at about 690 episodes remembered.

===Would be neat===
* Force image's to scale down when too wide for page and turn off overflow on that div. Good example in episode 2863.
* Have a "available in Spanish" link for episodes that have a Spanish option.
* Toggle button for Transcript | Help mode.

==Work Log==
===March 27, 2013===
Got images that were wider than the screen to scale down. Made some minor color and font changes based on some articles I read (see bullet list below). Might incorporate some break points in May if there is time, but for now I just wanted some nice readable text. Also fixed the player controls to the top so you don't have to go back to the top after reading a transcript.

* http://informationarchitects.net/blog/responsive-typography-the-basics/
* http://informationarchitects.net/blog/100e2r/
* http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2013/03/01/logical-breakpoints-responsive-design/

Fixed a problem that allows the links taken from UH's site to work from this site.

Changed get_newest_episode.php to store last episode locally. If for any reason it can't reach UH's website it will still get an episode number. It updates the local latest episode number when anyone goes to the web page (admitidly kind of pointless because if UH's site cannot be reached the transcript or audio won't load).

===March 23, 2013===
While reworking the Autoplay options to be cookie friendly, I learned you cannot pass parameters to a function using jQuery's click in the way one would expect.
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3273350/jquery-click-pass-parameters-to-user-function

I finished the rework to make cookies work, but learned cookies have a size limit. The cookie reaches it's maximum size in chrome after about 690 episodes. Added to bug list.

Modified jPlayer Blue Monday skin to incorporate disabled Play and Stop buttons for when the player has nothing loaded (when viewing help or about page). Added function to disable play menu options. It's used on all pages except 'transcript'. Added a pop-up help for remembered play check box, shouldn't be annoying. Started on an about page.

Moved some files and folders into 'possible delete' folders. Most of them look like options jPlayer stuff that is not being used. Will delete after some testing.

It looks like this commit might complete March's loose time table goal! 

===March 22, 2013===
Today I realized the reason episode 2870 didn't show the transcript was because the layout is different--it is all out HTML5--than the other episodes (why did they have to change it now after all these years? lol). Episode 2871 goes back to the old table method, so my solution was to change get_episode_transcript.php to look for the new version and the old version. It's fixed for today. In light of this I should change the way the latest episode number is retrieved too. My first thought it to loop through the audio files and see which is the last one to be longer than 4 seconds.

Started the major code rework to implement cookies. The current push is not usable (but the live demo still is).

===March 21, 2013===
Realized implementing cookies is harder the way I setup the player, so I started reworking some code. Hopefully in a way that better follows the DRY principle. Started with a function that simply plays an episode based on the argument provided (don't know why I didn't think of that before), but still need to rework the rest of the play options to use it. 

Did an overdue and rather embarrassing spell check on this readme.

===March 17, 2013===
Got the autoplay options to mostly work with the fall back flash player. Passed testing in Firefox and IE9, IE8 still has issues but I'm testing in IE9 with IE8 compatibility turned on. Safari has known issues with jPlayer so I'm not even going to address that on this project yet.

Fixed a min-width screen bug.

Streamlined the cookie creation process. Started working on code that checks for previously played episodes (quite messy right now).

===March 16, 2013===
Finally found why audio wasn't loading when jPlayer was using flash player, but found another bug in the autoplay options. They don't continue to play after the end of the first episode played using the flash player.

===March 3, 2013===
Discovered program audio is available at http://app2.kuhf.org/audio_library/engines/ and http://www.kuhf.org/programaudio/engines/. Setting up a fall back is not the worst idea.

Started working on Cookies today. I opted to use the jCookie plug in for jQuery. The site will make a cookie and append the episode number to the value after playing an episode. So far the cookie is not used for any features, like skipping episodes already played in the auto play modes.

Fixed a PHP error on line 4 of index.html by adding if(!isset($_REQUEST['epi'])).

Fixed bug '''Episode transcript link continues to add li elements''' and '''Share link url doesn't work'''.

===February 24, 2013===
Fixed jPlayer playback, cleaned up code in index.html and eistreamer.js, also added a fair bit of comments to the latter. Fixed autoplay options, although it could use a better solution (currently uses javascript and not jPlayer).

Updated jPlayer aesthetics. Modified Blue Monday <http://www.jplayer.org/latest/jPlayer.Blue.Monday.2.2.0.zip> skin css to better fit layout and to have disabled previous and next buttons options.

===February 17, 2013===
Added Blue Monday skin to jPlayer, in the processes I've seemed to have broken play back. 

===February 16, 2013===
Now has cross browser support through use of jPlayer. Firefox still needs Adobe Flash because it doesn't support mp3, but it works. It's also been tested in IE10 and IE9, but doesn't work in earlier versions.

Didn't fix anything today, but I did create some sloppy code in eistreamer.js and index.php getting jPlayer to work. Add code clean up to the to do list.

===February 9, 2013===
A lot of cosmetic work today, got a great deal of the default.css figured out.

Cleaned up the left side menu. Added toggle for transcript and help, also added basic JavaScript function to swap between them in the main display area. It would be neat if this was a graphical toggle switch and if the main display area faded in and out. Will add this if time.

Simplified the auto play area, added a check box for "remembered". If checked it will make a cookie when an episode is done playing and not play that episode again on any of the auto play options. Still need to add the cookie code.

Added html for keyword and share link section. The share link code works (uses URL), but no keyword code yet. Would like to add an auto select to the share link for easier copy and paste.

Added Official info links at end of left side menu. One to the Engine's website, the other will take the user to the official Engine's transcript for the current episode.

Wrote up most of the help section, even added a bit of JavaScript to make the help section's heights match what they're describing (/scripts/help.js).

Started working on some cross browser support (all testing to this point has been Chrome). Lots of work to do here. I  also learned Firefox doesn't support MP3--who knew? Only options are third party plug-ins or converting the audio to ogg. I knew IE was going to be a problem from the beginning, but I didn't realize versions less than 10 don't seem to support the audio tag. Simple solution might be to just make it only officially support IE10.

Did some experimenting with javascript versions of play/pause. In accordance with the "don't be afraid of frameworks" learning objective I've elected to use jPlayer for cross browser support. Haven't done anything with this yet.

Started about section.

Added a footer, if I have a credit section be sure to add http://www.cssstickyfooter.com.




==General Notes so I don't forget==
* more intuitive menu
** pop up instructions for manual input (reference bmrcalc)
** Better way to handle manual input (look for comment in ieplay.js)

* mobile
** autoplay difference on mobile
** different menu on mobile browser
** change layout by screen width to fit transcript

* PHP script to get episode titles
** list of episodes with title and keywords - http://www.uh.edu/engines/keywords.htm

* make playlist by keyword
** search by keyword
** list of keywords (tag cloud?)